This file will be my sample text file.
This poem was written by my great-grandmother, Alice Lewis Richards and was
published in a book for girls called "Smiles". The entire book can be found
on Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/40576



MOTHER ROBIN
A robin was sitting high up in a tree,
And was happy as ever a robin could be;
In a nice little nest that was built by two,
She was sitting on four small eggs of blue.

Her mate on a limb was sitting close nigh,
And thinking of birds that would come by-and-by.
He always kept near that little home-nest,
And often would sit to give his mate rest.

When she grew tired of waiting so long,
He would cheer her up with a sweet little song.
In a very short time her sitting was o'er,
And the birds in her nest numbered just four.

A sweet little girl lived near to this tree,
Who was happy as ever a girl could be;
She had a nice doll, that had a nice swing,
That had hung in this tree since early in spring.

One day she was swinging her doll to and fro,[Pg 65]
Mother Robin was peeking at her below;
She said: "Little girl, little girl, look up to me,
I've four little birdies for you to see."

"O Mother Robin, I'm glad they have come!
I'll go right now and bring you a crumb;
I'll bring one for your mate and each of the four,
And when supper is ready I'll bring you some more."

"All right, little girl, I wish that you would,
I'm glad to see you so thoughtful and good;
But I wish you would keep old Tabby away,
For I know she was gazing up here to-day."

"O Mother Robin, you must have no alarm!
For Tabby, I'm sure, will do you no harm;
She's a good old cat and minds what I say,
But I'll tell her again not to come this way.

"Will you give me a birdie? one of your four,
I only want one and not any more;
I have a nice cage I could hang in the tree,
And birdie, I know, would be happy with me."

"Oh, no; little girl, it never will do[Pg 66]
To part with my birdie and give her to you;
She never could live shut up in a cage,
And my mate, I fear, would fly in a rage.

"Will you give me your doll? I'd like to have one
For my little birdies, you know they have none;
When they get older they'll all want to play,
And I've room by my nest to tuck her away."

"Oh, no; Mother Robin, my dolly would cry,
If she lived in a nest that was up so high;
When the wind blew my dolly would fall,
Then down would come birdies, nest, and all.

"So I'll keep my dolly, for I think it is best,
And you keep your birds till they fly from the nest;
They will be happier, I know, to be free,
And my dolly's contented to stay here with me."
